So here I am in the source code responsible for the app you saw in the last lecture
and as you can see, here I got three major components and then some subcomponents
of these components. In the app component, I'm loading them all, my home component, my users component and
servers component.
But for now, I'm going to ignore my subcomponents here, edit server and a single server,
so we will later nest this even more
but for now it would be nice if of these three components,
I would only display one at a time so that we can dynamically load them by clicking on these links here
at the top
and we really load a different route in our app.
Now where do we register such routes?
Let's think about this logically.
These routes are responsible for our whole app. Everywhere in our application,
if we enter /users, we want to load the users component as our main page let's say.
So since this is really a core part of our app, where should we register it?
Well, the app module sounds like a good place because here is where we configure our app, where we add
all these components and so on,
so this might be a good place to also inform Angular about the routes our application has and it is.
So here above this @NgModule decorator here, I will add a new constant and I will name it appRoutes
because it should hold all the routes of my application.
Now these routes constant should be of a specific type, the routes type, which needs to be imported from
@Angular/router.
So make sure to add this import at the top,
this is the type informing Angular or giving these routes some structure I should say.
You don't necessarily have to add it here but it is a good practice.
Now with this import added and the constant set up, what should this constant actually hold? It should hold an
array because we will have multiple routes.
So we add all the routes we want to set up to this array for now
and each route now is just a Javascript object in this array.
Now the question is, how should such a route be configured in an Angular app?
It has to follow a specific pattern, a specific structure for Angular to be able to use it
and this structure always needs a path,
this is what gets entered in the URL after your domain.
This should be a string and the first route I want to add could be my users route,
this allows me to then visit localhost or whatever your domain is,
4200 in this case here and then /users.
So that is your path without the slash
and this is important,
make sure you don't add the slash here,
this would be incorrect added without the slash.
So this is now the path and this will later allow Angular to determine which route in our array of routes here
should be selected
if we enter something in the URL or click some link because it clearly defines well which path this route
should be.
Now we also need to define what should happen when is path here is reached.
Right now, nothing happens,
it's a route but yes, there is no action attached to it.
The action typically is a component so that you inform Angular that once this part here is reached, a certain
component should be loaded and this component will then be the page you could say which gets loaded.
So here for users, it sounds about right to load our users component
and of course it's up to you to make sure that in your application, you are indeed configuring your
components you want to serve as pages, to look like pages, to have all the content you want to have on
this page.
In this case, that's the case for my users component, here at least for now it will output my list of
users and then the single user component next to it and we will later improve this to also be able to select
the user from this list of users here
but for now, that's fine.
So this is now my first route with the users component getting loaded
once we target /users.
Now let's add a couple of other routes,
I'll duplicate this or replicate this twice.
I also want to have a certain page I display once we have just localhost:4200,
so an empty path after it, you could say.
So we should also create a route for this with just an empty path
and here I want to load my home component,
this is the starting page you could say. You of course don't need to have such an empty path but then you
somehow need to handle this,
well the user accesses an empty path differently and I will come back to this later.
So for now we have an empty path, just localhost:4200 loading the home component, /users will load
the users component and I also want to have /servers which will load my server or servers component.
With that, three routes are set up here
but that alone won't do anything.
How would Angular know that you want to use this constant?
You could have added any constant here and the name appRoutes,
well that is totally up to you.
So right now, these routes will be ignored by Angular and the type routes here doesn't do anything
when it comes to this.
So we somehow need to register these routes in our app and we do this by adding a new import here to
this imports array,
we need to add the RouterModule here and this RouterModule should be imported from our @angular/router
package here.
So with this added, we're adding the routing functionality to app but still, our routes are not registered.
That is why this RouterModule has a special method we can call, forRoot, which allows us to register
some routes for our main application here.
So forRoot will now receive our appRoutes constant here as an argument and with that, our routes
are now registered in our Angular app on this RouterModule which gives us this routing functionality
and now Angular knows our routes.
The missing piece is someplace to render the currently selected component because if you have a look
at our app component template, we still add our components here with their selector. Now
OK we visit /users, so Angular knows we want to load the users page but how does it know where to
display it?
How does it know if you want to display it here or here or maybe here in the header, it doesn't know.
So the right place to inform where to load it is to get rid of all these rows here but one, so only have
the place where you actually want to render your route
and now you don't add your component with its selector but you add a special directive shipping with
Angular, the router-outlet.
Now this looks like a component but it still only is a directive,
keep in mind directives may have any selector including this component or this elements style selector.
And with this, this now simply marks the place in our document where we want the Angular router to load
the component of the currently selected route.
And with this all set up, if we now save this and let it rebuild therefore, we should see that this rebuild
successfully and if we visit our page now, you see we only see the home page now and if we now enter
/users here, we see the users page and if we enter /servers, we see the servers page.
So this is working,
of course our links are not working,
this is something we will work on next.